---
layout: post
title: "Geisha ≠ Prostitutes"
category: Culture
author: Mondo Yamaguchi
comments: true
---

Many people are first introduced to foreign cultures and historical time periods through film and literature. Sometimes it works, but sometimes it doesn't. In the case of understanding the geisha world, almost all the books and movies give inaccurate depictions of geisha.

The publication of Arthur Golden’s novel *Memoirs of a Geisha* in 1997 was one of the landmarks in the creation of the modern image of geisha. The book sold four million copies in the United States in four years and stayed on the New York Times bestseller list for 58 weeks (Akita 13). In this book, Golden portrayed geisha as highly erotic figures, which instilled a fictional knowledge in people’s minds. The novel is based on interviews he conducted in Kyoto with several geisha, but particularly with one called Mineko Iwasaki. Golden had visited Japan for two weeks to interview Iwasaki at her house in Kyoto. In the book, he borrowed and exaggerated actual episodes in Iwasaki’s life and consequently painted her as a prostitute. Utilizing Iwasaki’s episodes helped to validate the story and thus, enhanced his book’s entertainment values. He also conducted historical research that made readers think Memoirs was a true autobiography, which made the book more appealing to readers.

In addition, the book was adapted for a film in 2005. The movie was directed by Rob Marshall and co-produced by Steven Spielberg and has earned more than $165,000,000 USD, which indicates that it reached a wide audience. Despite the facts, most of the sets for the film were built in California with only a few scenes near the end of the movie filmed on set in Kyoto. Furthermore, Chinese actresses were cast for the three leading roles which has more than likely further shaped Western perceptions of the geisha culture. Author of *Authenticity and the Politics of Representation in Memoirs of a Geisha*, Bergstrom explains that Japanese audiences were insulted by the casting of Chinese actresses as geisha, as many felt it would be impossible for a gai-jin (foreigner in Japanese) to accurately represent this traditional aspect of Japanese culture and heritage (Bergstrom 15). However, the Japanese reception of the film was not ruined because the Japanese looked at it as an entertaining fiction that has nothing to do with the actual culture of Japan. 

Japan’s most famous yet enigmatic symbols, geisha (芸者) have influenced the Orientalists’ spirit of exploration and investigation since the mid-nineteenth century. Although, most of them did not deliver it successfully, they instead spread fallacies and misinterpretation around the world. Unfortunately, many of the orientalists have equated geisha with prostitutes, but in reality, they are artists who entertain their clients at a formal banquet with traditional Japanese dancing, singing and playing of Japanese musical instruments, ohayashi (お囃子)—but never with sex (Akita 13). It has remained as a popular form of traditional entertainment for over 300 years. Yet most in the middle class of Japanese society never get the opportunity to interact with geisha. This is because geisha are mainly associated with upper class Japanese businessman, politicians, and other celebrities. This exclusively unique culture cannot be understood easily, especially for the reason above. 

The word “geisha” is composed of two parts—gei (芸), means an art and sha (者), means a person. Therefore, geisha means artists. They are highly trained professionals in the fields of traditional Japanese dance, music, tea ceremony, and poetry. Practicing these traditions make them unique and it is one of the most important facets of geisha. The traditional music are called ohayashi, which includes a Japanese flute (笛), a shoulder drum (小鼓), a Japanese drum (太鼓), an ookawa (おおかわ), a shamisen (三味線), and a singing traditional song (唄). They do not practice all, but each of them specializes in two or more types of ohayashi. Geisha need to be well versed in these culture and arts among other things.  

A geisha’s day starts with a few hours of traditional Japanese dance and ohayashi lessons every morning. Geisha practice the traditions every day until they retire, which means, even geisha in their seventies and eighties continue with their lessons every day. Following lunch, and a short recess, geisha prepare for evening banquets by putting makeup on and then getting dressed in a kimono (a Japanese traditional garment); which could take over an hour. Each geisha attends one to five banquets a night individually or as a group. They usually work until one or two in the morning depending on when the last banquet ends and finally sleep at around three a.m. They work more than 300 days a year. People often get surprised with their hectic schedule, but many geisha start this routine as early as fifteen, and they continue for years. 

In addition to their daily banquets, geisha perform traditional dance and music at annual festivals and at bigger events at a hotel or ryotei (a Japanese traditional restaurant). Also, highly successful geisha are often asked to do publicity shots for a company for an advisement and they also appear in a magazine, tourism guide and TV commercial (Gallagher 16). The middle class of Japanese society really has no clear idea about geisha, but through these advertisements people get to see them.

Geisha culture has changed over time. In the past, many of them came from humble beginnings, and were often forced to work as geisha because of the potentially stable influx of income, but modern geisha are entirely different. Almost none of them become geisha for a stable influx of income. They respect and admire geisha for their dedication to Japanese traditions and their beautiful appearance, and frequently, Japanese teenage girls apply to become geisha through an okiya’s website. An okiya (置屋) is a geisha house, where the geisha live as a family and are governed by “mother”, who is referred to by that title by geisha (Gallagher 9). When applicants first apply, they have an interview with the mother of okiya. If the mother accepts them, they can start training for a year, but the mother can fail applicants anytime during the first of year training. If applicants manage to finish the one-year training, they can become geisha and if they do, they usually have to sign a five to six year contract with their mother. Until the contract ends, geisha receive zero money, but okiya pay for all the necessities and living expenses in exchange. 

Kimono cost the most out of all the expensive necessities geisha must have. They can cost more than $1000 USD each and they need more than 20 kimonos because they have a different kimono for each month and for some special occasions as well. If a geisha decides to retire before their contract ends, they must pay the okiya accordingly. Nowadays, most geisha retire right after their contract end because it is financially tough to continue. If they decide to continue, they have to leave their okiya and take out a loan (usually between $120000 USD - $160000 USD) for kimono, accessories, living expenses and etc.  Popular geisha normally earn between $8000 USD and $12000 USD per month after the five to six year contract ends. Regular geisha earn about half of popular geisha. 

Nearly every Kyoto visitor hopes to catch a glimpse of geisha, but not many actually get to see a real geisha. Instead, visitors often find tourists dressing up as geisha and mistaking them for real geisha. The only times people have a chance to see them are at some special events or annual festivals in Kyoto (the most famous geisha prefecture), and maybe in the streets of hanamachi (geisha district) if they are lucky. Clients at a geisha party are often high-class businessman, politicians, athletes, or other celebrities. Hanadai (dispatching fee for geisha) costs between $100 USD to $120 USD per geisha per hour. The time starts when they leave their okiya (geisha houses) and it ends when they get back to the okiya. 3% of hanadai goes to the geisha union; one third of the rest goes to the ochaya (where geisha generally entertain small parties of guests) and the remainder goes to the okiya.

Clients cannot directly contact geisha or okiya to arrange a banquet with geisha, but they instead contact an ochaya. An ochaya makes contact with an okiya to arrange an appointment with geisha. They also provide a space for a banquet, order food, call a taxi, and so on. The okiya pays all the fees in advance and then bill clients later on. Thus, clients never have to pay on the day they have their banquet. In addition, ochaya do not make a due date for the bill. Clients can pay whenever they want. It could be a month later, two months later, and so forth. An ochaya fully trust their clients. For this reason, an ochaya does not usually accept new faces. It can only be approached by means of recommendation from an established member, and a member has to become a guarantor of the new faces until they gain credit. If the new faces do not pay or do something inappropriate, it is their guarantor’s responsibility to take care of it. 

Geisha provide exclusive high-class forms of traditional entertainment, ozashiki asobi (お座敷遊び), consisting of traditional dancing and music, and having a casual conversation. A banquet is usually held at ochaya, but sometimes at a ryotei (traditional restaurant), hotel, or restaurant. Most often, people cannot distinct geisha from hostesses, but the differences are very clear. Hostesses sell themselves to attract customers, but geisha sell their gei, traditional dance and music and their hospitality. Geisha do not have to flatter customers because they are not the ones who bring customers, which is ochaya’s job. As a matter of course, clients try to flirt geisha, but nothing usually happens since they do not usually have enough trust or money. No other countries have this type of culture, which makes them want to think there is more; like something sexual; but that never happens in the world of geisha.

In conclusion, Western culture has established a modern image of geisha and nowadays many people from around the world equate them with prostitutes, but in reality, they are respected artists who entertain their clients at a formal banquet with traditional Japanese dancing, singing and ohayashi. They preserve beautiful traditional Japanese culture that Japanese people respect. Despite the unfamiliarity of the geisha’s specific duties, geisha continue to attract Japanese people; there is something geisha touch in their soul. The Japanese comedy film based on geisha, Maiko Haaaan!!! came out in 2007, which has easily beaten Memoirs of Geisha at the Japanese box office. The film gives a glance of a real geisha world, which has influenced many teenage girls and some of them have become geisha today. People have to realize understanding cultures and traditions takes many years of study and they should not believe everything they read and hear. It can only be learned through experiences. Gai-jin can write an entertaining fiction, but cannot write about Japanese cultures and traditions accurately unless they live in Japan for many years. Western culture has misrepresented and misunderstood Japanese culture too much; Geisha is just one of them. 

***
**References**

+ Akita, Kimiko. &quot;Bloopers of a Geisha: Male Orientalism and Colonization of Women&#39;s Language.&quot; Women &amp; Language 32.1 (2009): 12-21. Print.
	
+ Bergstrom, A. &amp; Meyers, E. (May 2007). &#39;You are to become Geisha’: Authenticity and the Politics of Representation in &#39;Memoirs of a Geisha.&#39; International CommunicationAssociation, San Francisco, CA.
	
+ Gallagher, John. &quot;The Flower-and- willow World.&quot; Introduction. Geisha: A Unique World of Tradition, Elegance, and Art. London: Produced by PRC Pub., 2003. 18. Print.

+ Prasso, Sheridan. The Asian Mystique: Dragon Ladies, Geisha Girls, &amp; Our Fantasies of the Exotic Orient. New York: Public Affairs, 2005. Print.